ADHD Task Manager
USER MANUAL


LOGGING IN

When opening the app for the first time or for the first time in a while, you will be presented with the Log In Screen. Here there are two buttons. Log in with Google, and Log in Annoymously. Tapping on either of the buttons will log you in (Logging in with google will require you to follow the on-screen prompts from google). Here are the main differences between the two:

 - Logging in annonymously
Your activity/session information will not be saved when you sign out.

 - Logging in with Google account
A valid Google account will be required.
When logging in for the first time, go to settings and add your Google account. This way, you will not have to login every time you use the app.
Signing out of the app saves your activity/session information.

After Logging in with either of the two methods, you will be presented with the Home/Main/Todo Screen.


NAVIGATING THE MENU

To Navigate the menu, click on the hamburger icon on the top left of the screen. This will open a navigation drawer. Swipe from right to left to close the drawer again. Select any of the options to take you to that screen. 


ADDING TASK

On The home screen, tap on the ‘+’ Icon to open up the Add Task Dialog Box. Then, tap the Title textbox to enter the title of the task. Then, do the same to create a small description. Once that is done, tap on the Priority drop down menu to select, Low, Medium or High Priority task. Then click on the date button to select a date when the task is due. Do the same for the time. Once you are happy with all of your selections, tap the “Add” button on the bottom right.


EDITTING TASK

On The home screen, scroll until you find the task you wish to edit. Tap on the pencil icon on the top right of the task card. This will open the Edit Task Dialog Box. Tap the Title textbox to change the title of the task. Then, do the same to change the small description. Once that is done, tap on the Priority drop down menu to select, Low, Medium or High Priority task. Then click on the date button to change the date when the task is due. Do the same for the time. Once you are happy with all of your selections, tap the “Add” button on the bottom right. 


DELETE TASK

On The home screen, scroll until you find the task you wish to delete. Tap on the bin icon on the bottom right of the task card. This will delete the task from the database permanently 


COMPLETE TASK

On The home screen, scroll until you find the task you wish to mark as completed. Tap on the checkbox on the left side of the task card. This will mark the task as complete and reward points for completing the task. 


COMPLETED TASK SCREEN

Tapping on the Completed Tasks Button on the Menu takes you to the Completed Task Screen. This Screen displays all of your completed tasks. You might want to view your completed tasks to try remember if you completed a task or just view the tasks you completed that day.


REWARDS SCREEN

Tapping on the Rewards tab on the Menu will display the Rewards Screen. This screen shows your Username on the top, with your total points underneath. Then there is a breakdown of all the rewards possible to achieve, with how many times you have achieved them and how many points you have earned through that reward.


LEADERBOARD SCREEN

Open the Navigation Drawer on the top left of the screen. Tap on the leaderboard tab to open the leaderboard screen. Here you can see a list of all the users and compare your points to theirs on the app. You can scroll up or down on the leaderboard, depending if there are people above or below you.

Note: Due to Database Read and Write charges, the leaderboard will only update for you everytime the app is started up. If you want to see recent changes. Restart the app. 


POMODORO TIMER SCREEN

When Tapping on the Pomodoro Timer button in the menu, the app will display the Pomodoro Timer Screen. The Screen consists of a countdown clock, a live percentage display and two buttons at the bottom. Stop on the left, and Start on the bottom right. When tapping on the start button, the app will ask for your permission to put the phone in Do Not Disturb mode when the time is running. 

After approving or disapproving, the time can start. After the timer starts, The Start/Resume button switches to a pause button. Tapping the pause button, pauses the timer. When the timer is in a paused state, the pause button switches to a Resume button. Tapping on resume continues the timer from where it was paused and switches the Start/Resume button to Pause again. Tapping Stop while the timer is running or while it is in a paused state, resets the timer. The length of time the timer runs for can be changed in the Settings Screen.


SETTINGS

Tapping on the Settings Button in the menu displays the settings screen. In this screen, the user can change different aspects of the application. 

The first setting toggles the application from a light background to a dark background.

The next setting allows the user to update their Display name in the application. This is so it doesn’t have to be the same as their Google account. Simply type a new name into the text box and tap update username button. This will update the user’s display name throughout the app. 

The user can also update the country they are from. This is just a fun little setting to see where other user’s may be using the app from. This is also completely optional. To update, select a country from the drop down menu then tap the update country button.

The next setting is if you wanted to change your profile picture in the app away from your default google account picture. There are 8 options to choose from. Tapping on one of the images sets that image as your new display picture for the app. Note: To see it on the Leaderboard Screen, you must restart the app.

The next setting Adjusts the Time for the Pomodoro Timer. Type the number of minutes into the Work Timer box that you want to try and stay focussed for. Underneath, is the break timer. At the completion of the work time, the break timer will start. This allows the user a short break before resuming their task.


HELP SCREEN

The help page has useful information for the app users. It has the following information:

- User manual
- Developers resources for those interested in what is under the hood
- A demo video showing how the app functions.


LOGGING OUT

Tapping on the Sign Out Button on the bottom of the Navigation Menu, will sign the user out and take them back to the Sign-In Screen. 
